humanitarian organizations are bound by
principles of neutrality and unra has
not only met but exceeded those
principles that according to a newly
released 47-page independent report
which was commissioned by the UN and led
by former French foreign minister
Katherine Colona in conjunction with
three human rights investigative bodies
from Europe overall the findings of the
review are that inra has in place a very
significant number of mechanisms and
procedures to ensure compliance with the
humanitarian principle of
neutrality actually probably have a more
developed system than other un
organizations or agencies uh which is a
necessity considering the very difficult
environment complex and difficult
situation in which they operate and uh
the uniqueness of their mission the
report was 9 weeks in the Mak
and relied on hundreds of interviews and
site visits including in Gaza it was
commissioned by the Secretary General
Antonio gues after Israel made
unsubstantiated claims in January that
UNR employees were part of terrorist
organizations regarding those claims the
final report says Israel has yet to
provide supporting evidence of this unra
gives a full list of all its employees
to relevant countries including Israel
on a on a regular basis the Israeli
government has not informed unra of any
concerns related to any unra staff based
on these staff lists since 2011 the
report States the report does highlight
50 recommendations in areas unra can
improve such as more International
employees and management roles more
frequent updates to donor countries on
neutrality issues and expanded Community
awareness the report largely exonerates
unra from any intentional and blatant
acts of bias but the damage from
Israel's claims has already been done 16
countries suspended funding to unra and
while a few of those have since resumed
funding once again unra says they only
have enough money to get through June
Gabriel zando Al jazer at the United
Nations in New
York make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer